README.md, before:

A docker compose file and some auxillary scripts for running a [Polymesh](https://github.com/PolymeshAssociation) development environment via `docker compose`

## Prerequisites

Docker for you platform installed and running. Download and setup instructions can be found here: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/

The docker daemon needs to be running before compose will work. (Try `docker ps` to see if the daemon responds)

## Running

Copy the correct env over to a `.env` from `envs/` e.g. `cp envs/6.0 .env`. This file specifies the images that will be used. Alternatively a file patch can be given explicitly to docker compose, e.g. `docker compose --env-file=envs/6.0 up`

Once an `.env` file is present use `docker compose up -d` to bring up the services. `docker compose down` will stop them.

This will bring up:
- single node Polymesh chain in dev mode
- REST API
- subquery indexer
- subquery graphql server
- postgres (subquery dependency)

This set of services should allow for testing most integrations

Update your `.env` file and use `./restart.sh` to restart the services with different versions
## Options
### Persisted vault keys

First create a docker volume to persist keys in: `docker volume create polymesh-vault-volume`. This only needs to be done once, provided the volume persists.

Then, use the `--profile=vault` when using `up` and `down`. (e.g. `docker compose --profile=vault up`). The initial vault will need to be setup and unsealed (visit `http://localhost:8200` by default). The vault data will be persisted across restarts, provided the external volume remains. This allows for stable addresses for testing purposes.

A second REST API will be brought up (listens on `:3014` by default) which is connected to the vault brought up.

This uses the Hashicorp Vault Manager: https://github.com/PolymeshAssociation/signing-managers


## Additional Notes

### Apple Silicon

When using apple silicon, polymesh images should point to the `-arm64` images. Set the appropriate prefix in the `.env` file. e.g.

`CHAIN_IMAGE=polymeshassociation/polymesh:5.4.0-staging-debian`
should become:
`CHAIN_IMAGE=polymeshassociation/polymesh-arm64:5.4.0-staging-debian`

As a work around, I use this shell snippet to select dynamically in scripts:
```sh
ARCHITECTURE=$(uname -m)
CHAIN_REPO=polymeshassociation/polymesh
if [ "$ARCHITECTURE" = "arm64" ]; then
    CHAIN_REPO="polymeshassociation/polymesh-arm64"
fi
```

### /mounts

The `/mounts` directory contains scripts used to setup the containers. e.g. The dev chain needs certain flags, postgres needs btree gist extensions.

Commit message:

update README with portal instructions

README.md, after:

A docker compose file and some auxillary scripts for running a [Polymesh](https://github.com/PolymeshAssociation) development environment via `docker compose`

## Prerequisites

Docker for you platform installed and running. Download and setup instructions can be found here: https://docs.docker.com/get-docker/

The docker daemon needs to be running before compose will work. (Try `docker ps` to see if the daemon responds)

## Running

Copy the correct env over to a `.env` from `envs/` e.g. `cp envs/6.0 .env`. This file specifies the images that will be used. Alternatively a file patch can be given explicitly to docker compose, e.g. `docker compose --env-file=envs/6.0 up`

Once an `.env` file is present use `docker compose up -d` to bring up the services. `docker compose down` will stop them.

This will bring up:
- single node Polymesh chain in dev mode
- REST API
- subquery indexer
- subquery graphql server
- postgres (subquery dependency)

This set of services should allow for testing most integrations

Update your `.env` file and use `./restart.sh` to restart the services with different versions
## Options
### Persisted vault keys

First create a docker volume to persist keys in: `docker volume create polymesh-vault-volume`. This only needs to be done once, provided the volume persists.

Then, use the `--profile=vault` when using `up` and `down`. (e.g. `docker compose --profile=vault up`). The initial vault will need to be setup and unsealed (visit `http://localhost:8200` by default). The vault data will be persisted across restarts, provided the external volume remains. This allows for stable addresses for testing purposes.

A second REST API will be brought up (listens on `:3014` by default) which is connected to the vault brought up.

This uses the Hashicorp Vault Manager: https://github.com/PolymeshAssociation/signing-managers


## Additional Notes

### Apple Silicon

When using apple silicon, polymesh images should point to the `-arm64` images. Set the appropriate prefix in the `.env` file. e.g.

`CHAIN_IMAGE=polymeshassociation/polymesh:5.4.0-staging-debian`
should become:
`CHAIN_IMAGE=polymeshassociation/polymesh-arm64:5.4.0-staging-debian`

As a work around, I use this shell snippet to select dynamically in scripts:
```sh
ARCHITECTURE=$(uname -m)
CHAIN_REPO=polymeshassociation/polymesh
if [ "$ARCHITECTURE" = "arm64" ]; then
    CHAIN_REPO="polymeshassociation/polymesh-arm64"
fi
```

### Polymesh Portal

You can set a custom RPC point on the [Testnet Polymesh Portal](https://portal.polymesh.live/settings) to use the locally running node. By default the settings you will need are:

```
RPC URL: ws://localhost:9944
Middleware URL: http://localhost:3001
```

![setting localhost in polymesh portal settings](/imgs/portal-settings.png)


### /mounts

The `/mounts` directory contains scripts used to setup the containers. e.g. The dev chain needs certain flags, postgres needs btree gist extensions.
